(Part 1 - Nazism)
(Potential titles)
Blood and Iron: The Rise of the Third Reich/The Making of the Third Reich: An Analysis of Nazi Germany's Rise/ The ascent of Nazism/ The inception of Nazism/The rise of the Third Reich/The advent of Nazism/Germany's Descent into Fascism: The Rise of Nazi Power/

(Content)
Following Germany's loss in WWI, many of its people were left in disarray and poverty. The Treaty of Versailles forced Germany to abdicate millions of kilometers of land, Was forced to demilitarize, and was coerced into paying massive war reparations which was impossible at the time.

(Insert image 1 with caption - "Germany's Loss of Territories after the Treaty of Versailles)

During the Great Depression following the Wall Street stock market crash in 1929, tensions were growing among the German populace. More than 50-70% of the population faced unemployment and poverty. Riots were occurring on a large scale, and major concerns for public safety were raised. A single carton of milk costed thousands of German Marks which required to be carried in wheelbarrows to purchase vital goods. This led to the people's loss of faith in the Leadership of President Hindenburg and the entire Reichstag and in turn came to favor the rising party of Hitler.

(Insert image 2 with caption = "Thousands of German Marks being carried to purchase essential goods for survival during the great depression")

Adolf Hitler was a veteran of WWI and the Treaty of Versailles inflicted immense pain to see his homeland in such a pitiful state. Hitler joined the Deutsche ArbeiterPartei(German Workers Party) and eventually became its leader. Hitler possessed anti-semitic, anti-capitalist, and anti-communist views. His speeches took hold of most of the German populace, during a grievous situation such as the Great Depression, Hitler promised economic reforms and Constitutions to uplift the economy and the well-being of the people. The major business investors at the time feared a communist uprising and supported Hitler's campaign resulting in strong financial aid for Hitler's regime. Following his appointment as Chancellor and shortly after Hindenburg's demise, Hitler seized power and established himself as the "Führer"(Leader) of Nazi Germany. He rapidly Constructed Hundreds of new factories for consumer and capital goods, upheld new economic reforms, established the first Wehrmacht and Luftwaffe(Army and Airforce) squadrons, and rapidly bolstered the economic and militaristic might of Germany.

(Insert image 3 with caption- "Hitler during a speech in Austria")

(Part 2 - Communism)
(Potential titles)
The Rise of the Soviet Union: A Historical Analysis/Revolution and Power: The Emergence of the Soviet Union/The Soviet Union's Ascent: Key Events and Impacts/The Ascendence of the Communist Ideology

(content)
During WW1 the Russian Empire was ruled by Tsar Nicholas II. He faced much controversy and criticism against his reign, primarily composed to his neglect towards the social well-being of the populace and his rigid bias towards the nobility. He possessed poor leadership qualities evidenced by his many losses to Germany in the war leading to the surrender of hundreds of kilometers worth of Russian land. Nicholas borrowed many loans from the United States to finance the resources required for WWI but nonetheless, it was insufficient. During a famine in the war, Nicholas hoarded Goods and services for the nobility instead of the people and continued wasting precious funds for the mere enjoyment of the nobility leading to the starvation and death of millions of the Russian people. Moreover, he was known for his brutal suppression of protests conducted by the citizens, "Bloody Sunday" A peaceful protest organized by Father Gerorgy Gapon resulted in the army opening fire under Nicholas's orders which resulted in over 700 deaths and over 5000 injuries, further deteriorating Nicholas's Reputation.

(Insert image 4 with caption- "Bloody Sunday 1905")

Vladimir Lenin was an avid follower of Karl Marx's works and was the catalyst for the Rise of the USSR, He is considered the father of communism. Lenin was the leader of the Bolsheviks, the biggest political party that existed in Tsarist Russia. Lenin despised the monarchy of Tsar Nicholas and condemned his cruelty towards the civilian populace. He organized the October Revolution of 1918 with the aid of prominent figures such as Leon Trotsky, Joseph Stalin, and many others to organize a nationwide mass rebellion against the monarchy of the Tsar.  Most of the Country's populace rose arms against the Tsar's forces and forced Nicholas to abdicate the throne. Following a brutal Civil war against the newly elected provisional government, Lenin established himself as the Premier of the USSR(Union of Soviet Socialist States) and made many reforms that shifted the country towards a socialist state. He was succeeded by Joseph Stalin who started rapid Industrialization which Bolstered the might of the Soviet Union into a world superpower.

(Insert image 5 with caption- "Vladimir Lenin during the prelude to the October Revolution)













